									DAY 3 ASSIGNMENT

Why do we need npm

Because a rect app is powerd of lot of pacakages and buldlers to handle that we need some helper package so that we need npm

tilde VS caret
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/22343224/whats-the-difference-between-tilde-and-caret-in-package-json

npm init
npm install -D parcel

pacakage-lock => to know what version exact using on production 
		pacakge lock is lock the exact version what version do you have in your system
	
pacakage-lock .json is very impt file it lock the version.It keeps track of 
It maints the hash of it maintains integrity

npm install -D parcel==> after install ing gthe node modules is also get come which like database for parcel

Should we add node modules to git repo => No 1.It is very heay file 
2. becaues to pacakge lock.json has suffcient information so we can generate it agaain

npmx=>npx means execute using the npm

React is core package and ReactDOM is package that uses React for manipulating the dom

I will never edit node modules and package.json packagelock.json

Parcel doing HMR-Hot Module Doing

to ignite our app we give entry point to our APP => npx parcel index.html
it jus create a develpment biuld and host it on a server

We should put .parcel.cache in gitignore
Any thing which generate on server automatically can put in .parcel.cache

Transitive Dependencies => We have package maanager which take the work of transitive dependencies

What are ther different types of scrpit

1.What is `NPM`?

npm is the world's largest software registry. Open source developers from every continent use npm to share and borrow packages, and many organizations use npm to manage private development as well.

npm consists of three distinct components:

the website
the Command Line Interface (CLI)
the registry

Use the website to discover packages, set up profiles, and manage other aspects of your npm experience. For example, you can set up organizations to manage access to public or private packages.

The CLI runs from a terminal, and is how most developers interact with npm.

The registry is a large public database of JavaScript software and the meta-information surrounding it.

Why do we need npm

Because a rect app is powered of lot of pacakages and buldlers to handle that we need some helper package so that we need npm

2.What is `npx` ?

	'npx' is a command-line tool that comes bundled with Node.js, starting from version 5.2.0. It stands for "Node Package Execute" and is used to execute Node.js packages.

	The primary purpose of npx is to make it easy to run Node.js packages without having to install them globally or locally. When you run a command using npx, it first checks whether the package is installed locally in the node_modules/.bin directory of your current project. If it's not found locally, npx will automatically download and install the package temporarily, execute the command, and then remove the package afterward.

	This means you can easily run command-line tools and executables from npm packages without worrying about polluting your global npm environment or cluttering your local project with unnecessary dependencies.


3.What is bundlers

	A bundler is a tool used in web development to bundle various assets, such as JavaScript files, CSS files, images, and more, into a single or multiple optimized files that can be served to the client's browser. Bundlers are crucial for managing dependencies, optimizing performance, and improving the development workflow. Let's take a look at three popular bundlers: Vite, webpack, and Parcel.

Vite:
	Vite is a modern web development build tool that focuses on speed and simplicity. It leverages native ES module (ESM) support in modern browsers to provide extremely fast bundling and hot module replacement (HMR) during development.
	Unlike traditional bundlers like webpack and Parcel, Vite doesn't bundle all the code and assets into a single file during development. Instead, it serves them directly from the source, using native browser support for ESM.
	In production, Vite still bundles and optimizes the code for performance, but it's primarily known for its incredibly fast development server and HMR capabilities.

webpack:
	Webpack is one of the most popular and versatile bundlers in the JavaScript ecosystem. It offers extensive customization options and supports a wide range of features, including code splitting, tree shaking, asset optimization, and more.
	Webpack operates on a plugin-based architecture, allowing developers to extend its functionality through various plugins and loaders.
	While webpack has a steeper learning curve and requires more configuration compared to Vite, it remains a powerful choice for complex projects with specific requirements.

Parcel:
	Parcel is another bundler known for its ease of use and zero-configuration setup. It aims to simplify the development process by requiring minimal setup and automatically handling various tasks like code transformation, bundling, and optimization.
	Parcel offers out-of-the-box support for modern web features and asset types, making it suitable for rapid prototyping and smaller projects.
	While Parcel may not offer the same level of customization and control as webpack, its simplicity and fast setup make it an attractive choice for developers who prioritize ease of use.

4.What is `.parcel-cache`

The .parcel-cache directory is a directory created by the Parcel bundler tool during the bundling process. It's used to store cached data and intermediate files generated during the build process.

Parcel, like many other build tools, uses caching to improve build performance. When you run Parcel to build your project, it analyzes your source files, processes them, and generates the bundled output. Along the way, it may generate various intermediate files or metadata to optimize the build process.

The .parcel-cache directory typically contains cached data related to dependencies, compiled assets, and other build artifacts. By storing this data locally, Parcel can avoid redundant work during subsequent builds, resulting in faster build times.

It's generally safe to ignore or delete the .parcel-cache directory if you're cleaning up your project directory or trying to save space. Parcel will recreate the cache as needed during the next build. However, deleting it may result in slightly longer build times during the next build as Parcel rebuilds the cache.


In the context of npm (Node Package Manager) or Yarn, dependencies and devDependencies are two different categories used to specify dependencies in a project's package.json file. They serve distinct purposes and are used in different scenarios:

5.What is difference between `dependencies` vs `devDependencies`

Dependencies:

	Dependencies are the packages that are required for the application to run in production. These are the packages that your application directly depends on during runtime.
	When someone installs your package or project, npm or Yarn will install these dependencies as well.
	Examples of dependencies might include libraries or frameworks that your application relies on to function properly, such as React, Express, lodash, etc.

DevDependencies:

	DevDependencies, on the other hand, are packages that are only needed during development or for building/testing the project, but are not required for the application to run in production.
	These might include tools for code linting, testing frameworks, build tools, or any other utilities needed during development.
When someone installs your package or project with the --production flag, devDependencies are not installed. They are only installed when the project is installed without this flag, typically on a developer's machine or during CI/CD processes.
Here's a breakdown of when to use each:

Use Dependencies (dependencies):

	When you need a package to be available in the runtime environment of your application.
	For libraries, frameworks, or utilities that your application directly depends on to function correctly.

Use DevDependencies (devDependencies):

	When you need a package for development purposes only, such as testing, linting, or building.
	For tools that are used in your development workflow but are not necessary for the final production build of your application.
	
	In summary, dependencies are for packages required for the application to run, while devDependencies are for packages required for development or building/testing purposes. Properly distinguishing between these two categories helps keep your project's dependencies organized and ensures that unnecessary packages are not included in the production build of your application.

6.What is `node_modules` ? Is it a good idea to push that on git?

	node_modules is a directory created by npm (Node Package Manager) or Yarn when you install dependencies for a Node.js project. It contains all the packages and their dependencies that your project requires, including the actual source code of those packages.

	As for whether it's a good idea to push node_modules to Git, the general consensus is no, it's not a good idea, and it's usually recommended to exclude node_modules from version control. Here are a few reasons why:

Size: The node_modules directory can become very large, especially for projects with many dependencies. Including it in your Git repository can bloat the size of your repository significantly, making cloning and fetching slower for collaborators and increasing storage requirements.

Redundancy: The contents of node_modules can be reconstructed anytime using the dependency information specified in package.json or yarn.lock (if using Yarn). Including node_modules in version control is redundant because it duplicates information already present elsewhere in the project.

Maintainability: Managing changes to node_modules in version control can become cumbersome. Since this directory is auto-generated and can contain thousands of files, it's generally not practical to review or track changes to these files in version control.

7.What is the difference between `package.json` and `package-lock.json

	package.json and package-lock.json are both files used in Node.js projects to manage dependencies, but they serve different purposes and contain different types of information:

package.json:

	package.json is a mandatory file in any Node.js project. It contains metadata about the project, such as its name, version, description, author, and license.
	One of the key sections in package.json is the dependencies object, which lists the packages that your project depends on in production. It also may include a devDependencies object for development dependencies.
	Developers typically manually manage the package.json file, adding, removing, or updating dependencies as needed.
	The package.json file also includes scripts that can be executed using npm or Yarn.

package-lock.json:

	package-lock.json is a file automatically generated by npm or Yarn when dependencies are installed or updated in a project.
	It serves as a record of the exact versions of all dependencies (and their transitive dependencies) that were installed. This includes not only direct dependencies listed in package.json, but also the specific versions of any sub-dependencies installed as well.
	The purpose of package-lock.json is to provide deterministic and reproducible builds. It ensures that the same versions of dependencies are installed across different environments or by different developers.
	While developers can manually update package.json to change dependencies, package-lock.json is meant to be managed by npm or Yarn automatically. It's generally not recommended to modify this file directly.
	
In summary, package.json is a manual file that contains metadata and dependency declarations for a project, while package-lock.json is an automatically generated file that locks down the exact versions of dependencies for reproducible builds. Both files play important roles in managing dependencies and ensuring project stability and consistency.

8. Why should I not modify `package-lock.json`?
	package-lock.json is a file automatically generated by npm or Yarn when dependencies are installed or updated in a project. It serves as a record of the exact versions of all dependencies (and their transitive dependencies) that were installed

9.What is `.gitignore`? What should we add and not add into it?

	.gitignore is a text file used by Git to specify intentionally untracked files that Git should ignore. When you add a file or pattern to .gitignore, Git will not track changes to those files or include them in commits. This is useful for excluding files that are generated during the development process, such as compiled binaries, temporary files, log files, or sensitive information.

Here are some guidelines on what to add and not add to .gitignore:

What to add:

1.Dependency directories: Exclude node_modules or packages directories, which contain installed dependencies. These directories can be large and are typically not committed to version control.

Example:
node_modules/

2.Generated files: Exclude files generated during the build process, such as compiled code, bundled JavaScript files, or transpiled CSS.

Example:

markdown
Copy code
dist/
build/
*.js
*.css

3.Temporary files: Exclude temporary or cache files generated by development tools or text editors.

Example:

Copy code
.DS_Store
.vscode/
.idea/

4.Environment files: Exclude environment configuration files containing sensitive information like passwords or API keys. Instead, use environment variables or configuration files that are not committed to version control.

Example:

bash
Copy code
.env
.env.local
.env.*.local
Logs and backups: Exclude log files, backup files, or any other files that are not essential to the project.

Example:

bash
Copy code
*.log
*.bak

Remember to be mindful of what you include or exclude in .gitignore to ensure that your repository remains clean and only contains essential files for the project. It's a good practice to review and update .gitignore regularly as the project evolves and new files are added.

10. What is the `dist` folder? in parcel

	The dist folder in Parcel (or any other build tool) typically stands for "distribution" and is where the bundled and optimized files for your project are outputted.

	When you build a project using Parcel, it takes your source files (such as JavaScript, CSS, HTML, images, etc.), processes them, and bundles them together, applying optimizations like minification, tree shaking, and code splitting. The resulting optimized files are then placed in the dist folder.

	Here's what you might typically find in a dist folder after running a build with Parcel:

	Bundled JavaScript files: If your project includes JavaScript files, Parcel will bundle them together into one or more optimized JavaScript files. These files may be minified and may have unique filenames generated by Parcel.

	Processed CSS files: If your project includes CSS files (or stylesheets written in other languages like Sass or Less), Parcel will process and bundle them, optimizing them for production. Again, these files may be minified and have unique filenames.

	HTML files: If your project includes HTML files, Parcel may process them, optimizing them for production. It may also inject links to the bundled JavaScript and CSS files.

	Other assets: Depending on your project setup, Parcel may also process and optimize other assets like images, fonts, or static files, placing them in appropriate directories within the dist folder.

	The dist folder is typically not included in version control, as its contents are generated during the build process and can be regenerated anytime. Instead, it's common practice to include instructions in the project's README or documentation on how to build the project and where to find the output files in the dist folder.

11.What is `browserlists`

	The term you're likely referring to is "Browserslist." Browserslist is a tool used to share target browsers between different front-end tools. It allows you to specify a list of target browsers and their versions, and various tools can use this list to optimize and tailor the output code for compatibility with those browsers.

	Some common front-end tools that can use Browserslist include Autoprefixer, Babel, ESLint, and Stylelint. These tools can automatically adjust the generated code or apply polyfills based on the browsers specified in the Browserslist configuration.

12. What is Tree Shaking?

	Tree shaking is a term commonly used in the context of JavaScript module bundlers, like webpack or Rollup. It refers to the process of eliminating dead code (i.e., code that is not used) from your final bundled JavaScript file.

	The term "tree shaking" originates from the concept of shaking a tree to remove dead leaves. In the context of JavaScript bundling, the "tree" represents the entire dependency tree of your application, while the "leaves" represent individual functions, classes, or variables.

13. What is Hot Module Replacement?

	Hot Module Replacement (HMR) is a feature in module bundlers like webpack, Parcel, and Rollup that allows modules to be updated in a running application without a full page refresh. It's a powerful tool for developers that significantly speeds up the development process by preserving the application state and updating only the modified modules, reducing the need for manual reloads.

Here's how Hot Module Replacement typically works:
1.Detection of changes
2.Replacement of modules
3.Preservation of application state
4.Fast updates

	Hot Module Replacement is especially useful in modern web development workflows, particularly when working with frameworks like React, Vue.js, or Angular, where components are often modular and can be updated independently. It's commonly used during development to quickly iterate on changes, fix bugs, or experiment with different features without disrupting the user experience. However, it's important to note that HMR is typically intended for use in development environments and is not recommended for production use.

14.List down your favourite 5 superpowers of Parcel and describe any 3 of them in your
own words.
	
	Certainly! Parcel is a powerful bundler that comes with several features that make web development faster and more efficient. Here are five of my favorite superpowers of Parcel:

1.Zero Configuration: Parcel requires no configuration out of the box. This means you can get started with your project immediately without having to spend time setting up build configurations. Parcel automatically detects your project's structure and handles everything from transpilation to bundling, allowing you to focus on writing code.

2.Built-in Support for Various Asset Types: Parcel supports a wide range of asset types out of the box, including JavaScript, CSS, HTML, images, and more. This means you can import these assets directly into your project without needing additional configuration or plugins.

3.Blazing Fast Performance: Parcel is known for its speed. It leverages multicore processing and caching to deliver lightning-fast build times, even for large projects with many dependencies. This allows developers to iterate quickly and see changes reflected in the browser almost instantly.

4.Automatic Dependency Resolution: Parcel automatically resolves dependencies for you, so you don't have to worry about managing complex dependency trees. Whether you're using npm packages, CSS imports, or other assets, Parcel handles the dependency resolution transparently, making your development workflow smoother.

5.Hot Module Replacement (HMR): Parcel comes with built-in support for Hot Module Replacement, allowing you to see changes in your code reflected in the browser in real-time without having to manually refresh the page. This speeds up development by preserving the application state and updating only the modified modules, making the development process more efficient.

Now, let's dive deeper into describing three of these superpowers:

1.Zero Configuration: Parcel's zero-configuration setup is a game-changer for developers, especially those new to web development or those who prefer a hassle-free setup. With Parcel, you can start coding immediately without worrying about complex configuration files. This saves valuable time and reduces the initial setup overhead, allowing developers to focus on building their projects.

2.Blazing Fast Performance: Parcel's speed is truly remarkable. By leveraging multicore processing and intelligent caching mechanisms, Parcel is able to deliver incredibly fast build times, even for large projects. This means that developers spend less time waiting for builds to complete and more time coding and iterating on their projects, leading to a more productive development workflow.

3.Hot Module Replacement (HMR): Parcel's built-in support for Hot Module Replacement is a game-changer for front-end developers. HMR allows developers to see changes to their code reflected in the browser in real-time, without the need for a full page refresh. This enables faster iteration and experimentation, as developers can immediately see the effects of their changes without disrupting the application state. HMR also helps in preserving the developer's mental flow, as they can stay focused on coding without being interrupted by manual refreshes.


~version “Approximately equivalent to version”, will update you to all future patch versions, without incrementing the minor version. ~1.2.3 will use releases from 1.2.3 to <1.3.0.

^version “Compatible with version”, will update you to all future minor/patch versions, without incrementing the major version. ^1.2.3 will use releases from 1.2.3 to <2.0.0.

value		desc

~version	Approximately equivalent to version, i.e., only accept new patch versions

^version	Compatible with version, i.e., accept new minor and patch versions

version	        Must match version exactly

>version	Must be greater than version

>=version	Must be equal or greater than version

<version	Must be lesser than version

<=version	Must be equal or lesser than version

1.2.x		1.2.0, 1.2.1, etc., but not 1.3.0

*		Matches any version

latest		btains latest release



							DAY 4 Class Notes

What is bable => it is javascript library which do the conversion of code from modern javaScript to olderJavs Script

Tree Shaking =>Removing unwanted code

babel plugin transform remove .console=>To remove console.log from your project

babel.rc is configuration file for babel

npm install babel-plugin-transform-remove-console --save-dev 

after instakling we need to configure the babel also
for that we need to create one file .bablerc

.bablerc

{
    "plugins": [ ["transform-remove-console",
    { "exclude": [ "error", "warn"] }] ]
}

delete previors dist folder 

again build the code 
npm run build


react reconcillation key
Keys are always good when you have multiple childern in HTML so that react do not need to render whole page
reactjs.org/docs/reconciliation.html
Render => updtaing somthing into dom

if we want to create more react.createElementthen every time createing reactElement is not suitable thats why we use jsx
JSX is not HTML inside javaScript

what is difference between HTML and JSX

babel
babel take this pice of code give normal code to use

what are differnt usage of jsx
advantages of JSX 

babel come along with the parcel when we install the npm i install

 ( 
    <h2 id="title" key="h2">  
       Namaste React 
    </h2> 
    ) //this is konwn as JSX expression

Name of component start with capital letter

								DAY 4 ASSIGNMENT

1. What is babel in ReactJs

	In ReactJS, "Babel" refers to a toolchain that is primarily used to convert ECMAScript 2015+ (ES6+) code into a backwards-compatible version of JavaScript that can be run in older browsers or environments that may not support the latest JavaScript features.

	ReactJS often leverages the latest JavaScript features to write concise and expressive code. However, since not all browsers support these features, Babel is used as a transpiler to convert this modern JavaScript code into a form that can be understood by a wider range of browsers.

	Additionally, Babel can also be configured to work with JSX, a syntax extension used by React for writing components. JSX allows developers to write HTML-like code directly within JavaScript, making it easier to define UI components. Babel can transpile this JSX syntax into regular JavaScript function calls.

	In summary, Babel is an essential tool in the ReactJS ecosystem, enabling developers to write modern JavaScript and JSX code while ensuring compatibility with a wide range of browsers and environments.

2. What is babel-plugin-transform-remove-console

Command => npm install babel-plugin-transform-remove-console --save-dev

	The command npm install babel-plugin-transform-remove-console --save-dev installs the Babel plugin named babel-plugin-transform-remove-console as a development dependency in a Node.js project.

	This Babel plugin is typically used during the build process of a JavaScript project, particularly in environments like ReactJS, to remove all console.log() statements from the code. This is useful for production builds because it helps in reducing the size of the JavaScript bundle and improves performance by eliminating unnecessary console logging statements, which are primarily used for debugging purposes during development.

	Once installed, you would typically configure Babel to use this plugin in your Babel configuration file (e.g., .babelrc or babel.config.js) to ensure that it's applied during the transpilation process. Then, when you build your project, Babel will remove all console.log() statements from the codebase, leaving behind a more optimized production bundle 

.babelrc
{
    "plugins": [ ["transform-remove-console",
    { "exclude": [ "error", "warn"] }] ]
}

after installing we need to configure the babel also
for that we need to create one file .bablerc

.bablerc

{
    "plugins": [ ["transform-remove-console",
    { "exclude": [ "error", "warn"] }] ]
}

delete previous dist folder 

again build the code 
npm run build

3. What is react reconcillation key

https://legacy.reactjs.org/docs/reconciliation.html

	In React, reconciliation keys are special identifiers assigned to elements in lists, such as those generated by iterating over an array and rendering components for each item.

	When React renders a list of elements, it needs a way to efficiently update the DOM when the order or number of elements in the list changes. React uses a process called reconciliation to determine how to update the DOM based on changes in the component tree.

	Reconciliation keys help React identify which elements in the list have changed, moved, or been added or removed. By providing a stable identifier for each element, React can optimize updates and avoid unnecessary re-renders.

	When you render a list in React, you should provide a unique key prop to each element in the list. These keys should be stable across renders, typically being based on the data associated with each element. Using stable and unique keys helps React efficiently update the DOM without unnecessarily re-rendering or reordering elements.

4. What is jsx 

	JSX stands for JavaScript XML. It is a syntax extension for JavaScript, often used with React to describe what the UI should look like. JSX allows developers to write HTML-like code within JavaScript, making it easier to create and visualize UI components.

const element = <h1>Hello, world!</h1>;

const element = React.createElement('h1', null, 'Hello, world!');

	JSX makes the code more readable and closer to what you would expect when writing HTML, which is why it's a popular choice for building UI components in React applications.

	Under the hood, JSX is transpiled into regular JavaScript function calls. Typically, a tool like Babel is used to transform JSX code into JavaScript code that browsers can understand. This process allows developers to write JSX code during development and have it compiled into efficient JavaScript code for production deployment.

5. What is difference between jsx and React.createElement

	JSX and React.createElement serve the same purpose in React, which is to create React elements that represent the UI. However, they differ in their syntax and how they are used.

	Overall, JSX is the preferred way to define React components in most cases due to its readability and ease of use. However, React.createElement() can be useful in certain scenarios, such as when generating React elements dynamically or programmatically.

6. Benifits of JSX
	
	JSX, the JavaScript XML syntax extension used in React, offers several benefits:

Readable Syntax: JSX resembles HTML, making it more readable and intuitive, especially for developers already familiar with HTML markup. This makes it easier to visualize the structure of UI components.

Faster Development: JSX allows developers to write UI components directly within JavaScript code, reducing the need for separate template files and improving development speed. It streamlines the process of building UIs by combining markup and logic in a single file.

Expressive: JSX enables the use of JavaScript expressions and logic within markup, allowing for dynamic content rendering, conditional rendering, and iteration over data collections directly within JSX code. This results in more expressive and powerful component definitions.

Tooling Support: JSX is widely supported by tools and libraries in the React ecosystem. Editors and IDEs provide syntax highlighting, code completion, and error checking for JSX code, improving developer productivity.

Compile-time Optimization: JSX code is transpiled into regular JavaScript function calls by tools like Babel. This compilation step allows for optimizations such as dead code elimination, minification, and performance enhancements, resulting in smaller bundle sizes and faster runtime execution.

Type Safety: JSX can be integrated with TypeScript or Flow, enabling static type checking and improved code quality. Type annotations can be added to JSX components and props, providing better tooling support and catching errors at compile time.

Component Reusability: JSX facilitates the creation of reusable and composable components by encapsulating both markup and behavior within a single unit. This promotes code reuse and maintainability by encouraging a modular and component-based architecture.

	Overall, JSX enhances the developer experience in React by providing a more readable, expressive, and efficient way to define UI components, leading to faster development cycles and improved code quality.

7. Behind the Scenes of JSX


	Behind the scenes, JSX in React is transformed into regular JavaScript code. This transformation is typically handled by a tool like Babel during the build process. Here's what happens behind the scenes when you use JSX:

a.Parsing: JSX syntax is not valid JavaScript, so it needs to be parsed into an abstract syntax tree (AST) representation that JavaScript engines can understand. This parsing is done by tools like Babel, which convert JSX code into JavaScript AST.

b.Transformation: Once parsed, the JSX AST is transformed into regular JavaScript code. Each JSX element is converted into a series of React.createElement() function calls. For example, <div>Hello</div> might be transformed into React.createElement('div', null, 'Hello').

c.Compilation: The transformed JavaScript code is then compiled into executable code, typically by converting it into ES5 or ES6 JavaScript syntax. This step might involve additional optimizations or transformations to improve performance or compatibility with different browsers.

d.Execution: Finally, the compiled JavaScript code is executed by the JavaScript engine in the browser or runtime environment. This results in the creation of React elements and the rendering of the UI on the screen.

	Overall, JSX provides a more readable and expressive way to define UI components in React, but it's important to understand that it's not directly understood by JavaScript engines. Instead, it's transformed into regular JavaScript code behind the scenes to enable its execution in browsers and other JavaScript environments.

8.Superpowers of JSX

	JSX in React provides developers with several superpowers that significantly enhance their ability to build modern, dynamic, and efficient user interfaces:

a.Declarative Syntax: JSX allows developers to write UI code in a declarative manner, where they describe what the UI should look like rather than focusing on the imperative steps to render it. This makes code easier to read, understand, and maintain.

b.Component Composition: JSX facilitates the creation of reusable and composable UI components. Components can be nested within each other, allowing developers to build complex UIs from simpler building blocks. This promotes code reusability, modularity, and maintainability.

c.Integration of JavaScript Expressions: JSX seamlessly integrates JavaScript expressions and logic within markup, allowing for dynamic content rendering, conditional rendering, and iteration over data collections directly within JSX code. This enables developers to build highly interactive and data-driven UIs with ease.

d.Tooling Support: JSX is well-supported by development tools and libraries in the React ecosystem. Editors and IDEs provide syntax highlighting, code completion, and error checking for JSX code, improving developer productivity and reducing the likelihood of syntax errors.

e.Type Safety with TypeScript or Flow: JSX can be integrated with TypeScript or Flow, enabling static type checking and improved code quality. Type annotations can be added to JSX components and props, providing better tooling support and catching errors at compile time.

f.Compile-time Optimization: JSX code is transpiled into regular JavaScript code during the build process. This compilation step allows for optimizations such as dead code elimination, minification, and performance enhancements, resulting in smaller bundle sizes and faster runtime execution.

g.Ecosystem Compatibility: JSX is widely adopted in the React ecosystem, with extensive community support and a rich ecosystem of libraries, tools, and resources. This makes it easier for developers to leverage existing solutions, share knowledge, and collaborate on projects.

	Overall, JSX empowers developers to build sophisticated and feature-rich user interfaces in React with greater efficiency, expressiveness, and maintainability, making it one of the key strengths of the React framework.

9.What is Babel & parcel role in JSX
	
	Both Babel and Parcel play important roles in handling JSX code in React applications:

Babel:

a.JSX Transformation: Babel is a JavaScript compiler that is often used to transform JSX code into regular JavaScript code that browsers can understand. JSX syntax is not directly understood by browsers, so Babel is necessary to transpile JSX into JavaScript that browsers can execute.

b.JSX Presets: Babel provides presets, such as @babel/preset-react, which includes plugins to handle JSX transformation. When configuring Babel, developers typically include this preset to enable JSX transformation in their projects.

c.Integration with Build Tools: Babel is commonly integrated into build tools like Webpack, Parcel, or Rollup to automatically transpile JSX code during the build process. By configuring Babel as part of the build pipeline, developers ensure that JSX code is transformed before being bundled for deployment.

Parcel:

a.Zero Configuration: Parcel is a web application bundler that aims to simplify the development process by requiring minimal configuration. It supports JSX out of the box, meaning developers can start using JSX in their projects without needing to set up additional configurations.

b.Automatic JSX Transformation: Parcel automatically detects JSX code in the project and applies the necessary transformations to convert it into regular JavaScript during the bundling process. This makes it easy for developers to work with JSX without worrying about manual setup or configuration.

c.Fast Development: Parcel's zero-configuration approach and built-in support for JSX make it well-suited for rapid development workflows. Developers can focus on writing code without getting bogged down by setup or build configuration, leading to faster development cycles.

	In summary, Babel and Parcel work together to handle JSX code in React applications. Babel transforms JSX syntax into standard JavaScript, while Parcel simplifies the development process by automatically handling JSX transformation without the need for manual configuration. This combination enables developers to leverage the power of JSX in React projects with minimal overhead.

10.What is Components in ReactJs

	In the context of React or other component-based frameworks, a component is a modular, reusable piece of user interface (UI) that encapsulates a specific functionality or behavior. Components can be thought of as building blocks used to construct the UI of an application.

In React, components can be divided into two main types:

a.Functional Components: These are JavaScript functions that take props (short for properties) as input and return JSX (JavaScript XML) to describe what should be rendered on the screen. Functional components are typically used for simpler UI elements or presentational components.

function Welcome(props) {
  return <h1>Hello, {props.name}!</h1>;
}

b.Class Components: These are ES6 classes that extend from React.Component and have a render() method. Class components can maintain internal state and handle lifecycle methods in addition to accepting props. They are often used for more complex UI components or containers that require state management and lifecycle hooks.

class Welcome extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <h1>Hello, {this.props.name}!</h1>;
  }
}

	Components can also be further organized into a hierarchy, where smaller, more specialized components are combined to form larger, more complex components. This approach promotes code reuse, maintainability, and scalability, as components can be easily composed and reused throughout the application.

	Overall, components play a central role in React development, allowing developers to build modular, encapsulated UI elements that can be easily composed and reused to create rich and interactive user interfaces.

11.What is Functional Components in ReactJs

	Functional components in ReactJS are a way of defining React components using JavaScript functions. They are also sometimes referred to as stateless functional components or functional stateless components. Functional components are primarily used for simpler UI elements or presentational components that don't need to manage state or lifecycle methods.

import React from 'react';

// Functional Component
function Welcome(props) {
  return <h1>Hello, {props.name}!</h1>;
}

In the above example:

The Welcome function is a functional component.
It takes props (short for properties) as its input.
It returns JSX (JavaScript XML) to describe what should be rendered on the screen.
The props can be accessed directly as parameters of the function (props.name).

Functional components have several advantages:

a.Simplicity: They are easy to read and write, making them a good choice for simple UI elements.
b.Performance: They are generally faster than class components because they don't involve the overhead of creating instances and managing lifecycle methods.
c.Easier Testing: They are easier to test because they are just plain JavaScript functions that take props as input and return JSX.



								  DAY 5 Class Notes
Any piece of jSX that you write that have only one parent


Suppose if you want 2 parent so either you can give <div/> or <react.Fragment/>

React.fragment	=> is a component which is exported by react

			is a like a empty tag  or <> </>
it do not creates the unnecessary creation of <div/> tag inside my root
if don't want that div then we can use react.fragment


How to give style inside react

in HTML we can give style using inline style
but in rect or javaScript we need to give style inside the object because react will understand object

other way is use to give className and write the styles in csss file 
another way is used external library such as tailwind

    // styleObj= {
    //   backgroundColor:"yellow",
    //   border:"1px solid red"
    // }
    // //Inline styling in react 
    // const jsx= (
    //   <div style={styleObj}>
    //     <h1>jsx</h1>
    //     <h1>second jsx</h1>
    //   </div>
    // )

join items in array js

Config Driven UI => We control our website using config driven UI, so that we can have one website instead of many this is done by backend

optional chaining Java Script HW

props

in functional programming instead of for loop we can use map which is used in industry

what is difference between map and for each


Virtual Dom=Representention of dom with us is known as virtualdom

why we need: due to of Reconcialation of react
react use a diff alogoriythm and find out what is updtated what needs to update it just update that part not render the whole page again this process is known as reconciation

diff algorithm finds out the difeernece between trees
tree is nothing but the virtual representaion of dom
it re r

why do we use keys   =>

if we dont have Ids 

we want to make react smart by giving key

ReactFiber => new reconcilation engine is come in react16 is responsible for DIFF

Why dont we use index as a key?

never use index as a key
read article from documentation

								   DAY 5 ASSIGNMENT

1.Is JSX mandatory for React?			
	No, JSX (JavaScript XML) is not mandatory for React development, but it is highly recommended and widely used for several reasons:
	
	However, under the hood, JSX is converted to JavaScript function calls by tools like Babel before being executed in the browser. If you prefer, you can write React components using pure JavaScript without JSX, but this approach is less common and may be less convenient for most developers.

2.Is ES6 mandatory for React?

	ES6 (ECMAScript 2015) is not strictly mandatory for React development, but it is highly recommended and widely used for several reasons:

a.Arrow Functions: ES6 arrow functions provide a concise syntax for writing functions, which is commonly used in React component definitions, event handlers, and callback functions.

b.Classes: ES6 classes offer a more familiar and convenient syntax for defining React components, especially for those coming from object-oriented programming backgrounds.

c.Template Literals: Template literals allow for easier string interpolation and multiline strings, which can improve the readability of JSX code.

d.Destructuring Assignment: Destructuring assignment makes it easier to extract values from objects and arrays, which is commonly used when working with props and state in React components.

e.Spread Syntax: The spread syntax (...) allows for easy copying of arrays and objects, which is often used for passing props and spreading state in React components.

f.Modules: ES6 modules provide a standardized way to organize and import/export code, which is commonly used in React applications to manage component files and dependencies.

	While it's possible to write React code using older JavaScript syntax (ES5 and earlier), adopting ES6 features can significantly improve code readability, maintainability, and developer productivity. Additionally, many modern React features and libraries assume the use of ES6 syntax, so it's generally recommended to use ES6 when developing React applications.

3.Different ways to include a React component named TitleComponent within the JSX syntax

{TitleComponent} vs {<TitleComponent/>} vs {<TitleComponent></TitleComponent>} in JSX


4.What is <React.Fragment></React.Fragment> and <></> ?

	Wrap elements in <Fragment> to group them together in situations where you need a single element. Grouping elements in Fragment has no effect on the resulting DOM; it is the same as if the elements were not grouped. The empty JSX tag <></> is shorthand for <Fragment></Fragment> in most cases.

Props 
optional key: Fragments declared with the explicit <Fragment> syntax may have keys.

Caveats 
If you want to pass key to a Fragment, you can’t use the <>...</> syntax. You have to explicitly import Fragment from 'react' and render
<Fragment key={yourKey}>...</Fragment>.

import React from 'react';

const MyComponent = () => {
  return (
    <React.Fragment>
      <h1>Hello</h1>
      <p>Paragraph</p>
    </React.Fragment>
  );
};

5.How to give style inside react

In HTML we can give style using inline style
but in rect or javaScript we need to give style inside the object because react will understand object

other way is use to give className and write the styles in csss file 
another way is used external library such as tailwind

    // styleObj= {
    //   backgroundColor:"yellow",
    //   border:"1px solid red"
    // }
    // //Inline styling in react 
    // const jsx= (
    //   <div style={styleObj}>
    //     <h1>jsx</h1>
    //     <h1>second jsx</h1>
    //   </div>
    // )

6.What is Config Driven UI => 
	
	We control our website using config driven UI, so that we can have one website instead of many this is done by backend

	A config-driven UI in ReactJS refers to an approach where the user interface (UI) components and their behaviors are determined by a configuration rather than being hardcoded in the source code. In this approach, the structure, appearance, and behavior of UI components are defined through a configuration file or data structure, which is then interpreted by the application to render the UI accordingly.

Here are some key aspects of a config-driven UI in ReactJS:

a.Flexibility: Config-driven UI allows for greater flexibility in defining and customizing UI components without directly modifying the source code. Developers can adjust the UI behavior by simply updating the configuration, which can be particularly useful in scenarios where UI changes are frequent or need to be customizable by end-users.

b.Separation of Concerns: By decoupling the UI configuration from the application logic, config-driven UI promotes a cleaner separation of concerns. Developers can focus on building reusable UI components and defining their behavior independently of the specific application requirements.

c.Dynamic UI Generation: Config-driven UI enables the dynamic generation of UI components based on runtime data or user preferences. This dynamic nature allows applications to adapt to changing requirements or user inputs without requiring code changes.

d.Configuration Formats: Configurations can be defined using various formats such as JSON, YAML, or JavaScript objects, depending on the preference of the development team and the complexity of the UI requirements.

e.Abstraction and Reusability: Config-driven UI promotes abstraction and reusability of UI components by encapsulating their implementation details behind a configuration interface. This makes it easier to reuse UI components across different parts of the application or in other projects.

	Overall, a config-driven approach in ReactJS offers a more dynamic, flexible, and maintainable way to build user interfaces, especially in complex applications with evolving requirements. However, it may require careful planning and design to ensure that the configuration format is intuitive, extensible, and well-documented.

7.What is props in ReactJs

	In ReactJS, props (short for properties) are a way to pass data from a parent component to a child component. They are immutable and are used to customize or configure a component when it is created.

	Props are read-only and cannot be modified within the component. They are passed from the parent component and remain fixed throughout the component's lifecycle. If a component needs to modify its data over time, it should use state instead.

8.What is Virtual Dom

why we need: due to of Reconcialation of react
react use a diff alogoriythm and find out what is updtated what needs to update it just update that part not render the whole page again this process is known as reconciation

diff algorithm finds out the difeernece between trees
tree is nothing but the virtual representaion of dom
it re r

	In ReactJS, the Virtual DOM (Document Object Model) is a lightweight, in-memory representation of the actual DOM. It is a programming concept where an ideal or virtual representation of a UI is kept in memory and synced with the real DOM by a library such as React. The Virtual DOM is a critical part of React's performance optimization strategy.

Here's how it works:

a.Initial Rendering: When you create a React component and render it to the DOM, React creates a virtual representation of the DOM tree in memory. This virtual representation mirrors the structure of the actual DOM but is a lightweight JavaScript object.

b.Updates and Reconciliation: When the state or props of a component change, React doesn't directly manipulate the real DOM. Instead, it creates a new virtual DOM tree with the updated state/props.

c.Diffing and Reconciliation: React then performs a process called "diffing" where it compares the new virtual DOM tree with the previous one to identify the differences or updates.

d.Minimal DOM Manipulation: Once the differences are identified, React calculates the most efficient way to update the actual DOM to reflect the changes. Rather than updating the entire DOM tree, React only updates the specific parts of the DOM that have changed. This approach minimizes the number of DOM manipulations, leading to better performance.

e.Batched Updates: React batches multiple updates together and performs them in a single pass to further optimize performance.

	By using the Virtual DOM, React reduces the amount of direct interaction with the browser's DOM API, which is typically slower. Manipulating the Virtual DOM is faster and more efficient because it's an in-memory representation. This approach leads to better performance and a smoother user experience in React applications, especially for complex and dynamic UIs.

8.What is reconciliation in react

https://github.com/acdlite/react-fiber-architecture

reconciliation
The algorithm React uses to diff one tree with another to determine which parts need to be changed.

	Reconciliation in React refers to the process of updating the DOM to reflect the most recent changes in the component's state or props. When a component's state or props change, React needs to determine what parts of the DOM need to be updated to reflect those changes efficiently. Reconciliation is the algorithm that React uses to perform this task.

Here's how reconciliation works in React:

a.Virtual DOM Comparison: React first creates a new virtual DOM representation of the component based on its updated state or props.

b.Diffing Algorithm: React then compares the new virtual DOM with the previous virtual DOM (generated before the state/props change) using a process called "diffing." Diffing involves recursively comparing the old and new virtual DOM trees to identify the differences or updates.

c.Identifying Changes: During the diffing process, React identifies which elements have changed, been added, or been removed.

d.Updating the DOM: Once the differences are identified, React updates the actual DOM to reflect the changes. Instead of re-rendering the entire component or updating the entire DOM tree, React selectively updates only the parts of the DOM that have changed.

e.Reconciliation Strategy: React employs various optimization strategies during reconciliation to make the process more efficient, such as key-based reconciliation, which helps React identify elements that have moved within a list, improving performance when rendering lists.

	By efficiently updating only the necessary parts of the DOM, React ensures better performance and a smoother user experience. Reconciliation is a crucial part of React's architecture, allowing it to efficiently manage complex UIs with dynamic data.

9.What is React Fiber

https://github.com/acdlite/react-fiber-architecture

	React Fiber is a complete rewrite of React's core algorithm, designed to improve the performance and responsiveness of React applications, particularly for complex and asynchronous user interfaces. It was introduced in React version 16.

	The primary goal of React Fiber is to enable better handling of asynchronous operations, such as rendering updates, layout calculations, and handling user input. It achieves this by breaking the rendering work into smaller units called "fibers" and allowing React to prioritize, pause, and resume work as needed.

Key features and benefits of React Fiber include:

a.Incremental Rendering: React Fiber enables incremental rendering, meaning it can split rendering work into chunks and spread it out over multiple frames. This allows React to prioritize high-priority updates and maintain a responsive user interface, even during heavy rendering tasks.

b.Improved Prioritization: With React Fiber, rendering work is prioritized based on importance, allowing React to ensure that critical updates (such as user interactions) are processed quickly, while less critical updates (such as background tasks) can be delayed or deferred.

c.Concurrency: React Fiber introduces the concept of concurrent rendering, which enables React to work on multiple tasks concurrently and switch between them as needed. This helps prevent UI freezes and improves overall responsiveness.

d.Error Boundaries: Fiber enhances error handling by introducing error boundaries, which are components that catch and handle errors that occur during rendering. Error boundaries prevent errors from propagating up the component tree and crashing the entire application.

e.Support for Asynchronous APIs: Fiber lays the groundwork for supporting asynchronous APIs natively within React, allowing developers to work with asynchronous data fetching, animations, and other asynchronous operations more efficiently.

	Overall, React Fiber represents a significant improvement in the performance, responsiveness, and concurrency capabilities of React applications, making it better equipped to handle modern web development challenges. It forms the foundation for future enhancements and optimizations in the React ecosystem.

10.Why we need keys in React? When do we need keys in React?

why do we use keys   =>

if we dont have Ids 

we want to make react smart by giving key

	In React, keys are special attributes that are used to uniquely identify elements in a collection (such as an array) of JSX elements. Keys help React identify which items have changed, are added, or are removed. They are essential for efficient rendering and updating of lists or collections of elements.

Here are some key reasons why we need keys in React:

a.Optimizing Reconciliation: React uses a process called reconciliation to efficiently update the user interface in response to changes in data or state. When rendering lists or collections of elements, React needs a way to identify which elements have changed, been added, or been removed. Keys provide React with this information, allowing it to update the DOM only for the elements that have changed.

b.Maintaining Component State: When rendering lists of components that have their own internal state (such as input fields or checkboxes), React needs keys to ensure that the state of each component is preserved correctly during updates. Without keys, React may mistakenly reuse components or lose their state, leading to unexpected behavior.

c.Performance Optimization: Keys help React optimize the rendering process by reducing unnecessary DOM manipulations. When an element is added, removed, or reordered in a list, React can use keys to quickly determine which elements need to be updated, inserted, or removed without having to re-render the entire list.

d.Preventing Component Reordering: Keys also help prevent unnecessary reordering of components within a list. When React reconciles two lists, it tries to match elements with the same key in the old and new lists. If keys are not provided or are not unique, React may incorrectly reorder the components, leading to a jarring user experience.

	In summary, keys are essential in React for efficient rendering, preserving component state, optimizing performance, and preventing unnecessary reordering of elements in lists or collections. They should be used whenever rendering dynamic lists of elements or components to ensure a smooth and predictable user experience.

11.Can we use index as keys in React?
	Yes, you can use the index as keys in React, but it's generally not recommended unless you're certain that the list is static and will not be re-ordered or filtered.



							   DAY 5 Class Notes

2 ways to export

1.export by deafult

why default => with default keryword we can export only one component

const Title = ()=>{

	}

export default Title;

import Title from ""

2.exporting by name

export const Title = ()=>{
	
     }

import {Title} from ""

when you are in the same file you don't need to import or export 

every component in react mainatins a state so you can put in all varaible into your state and every time you create your local variable you use usestate in react

useState Hook

supppose you have to create a local variable in react you have to use a state variable and those state variable in reacts is known as useState hook

What is state
What is hook?
What is useState?

What is hook?
hook is just a normal function 
but every hook has a specifuic function for it 
 
useState function => to create a state variable
this function returns a array and 1st variable of array is your variable name 

const searchtesxt="KFC" //create a normal variable in jav

const [searchtext] =useState ("KFC") //create local state variable
//Default value 

react says if you want use local variable in react then use useState hook in react

here I am writing the serchtext and here reading the search text this is called as Two way binding

why do we need statevariable => to change the state of variable because react will not understant that thats why we use useState hook


						      DAY 5 Assignment Notes

1.Ways to export or import in ReactJs

Three ways  
	a.export by deafult
	b.exporting by name
	c.Wildcard Export (* as)

a.export by deafult

why default => with default keryword we can export only one component

const Title = ()=>{

	}

export default Title;

import Title from ""

b.export by name

export const Title = ()=>{
	
     }

import {Title} from ""

when you are in the same file you don't need to import or export 


c.Wildcard Export (* as):

Wildcard export allows you to export all named exports from a module under a single alias.
You use the * as syntax to import all named exports from a module and assign them to an object with the specified name.

// module.js
export const foo = 'foo';
export function bar() {
    return 'bar';
}

// main.js
import * as myModule from './module.js';
console.log(myModule.foo); // Output: 'foo'
console.log(myModule.bar()); // Output: 'bar'

	Named Export is used when you want to export multiple variables, functions, or classes from a module.

	Default Export is used when you want to export a single value as the default export of the module.

	Wildcard Export (* as) is used when you want to import all named exports from a module under a single alias.

2.What is State in ReactJs

	In React.js, state refers to an object that represents the internal data of a component. It allows components to manage and maintain their own data, which can change over time as a result of user interactions, network requests, or other factors.

	State in React is used to store information that affects a component's behavior and appearance. When the state of a component changes, React automatically re-renders the component to reflect the updated state.

3.What are React Hooks?

	React Hooks are functions that allow functional components in React to use state and other React features without writing a class. They were introduced in React version 16.8 to address various issues related to state management, code reuse, and lifecycle methods in functional components.

	Before the introduction of hooks, stateful logic and side effects in React components were primarily managed using class components and lifecycle methods like componentDidMount, componentDidUpdate, and componentWillUnmount. While class components served their purpose well, they often led to complex and verbose code, making it harder to understand and maintain.

	React Hooks provide a more straightforward and composable way to manage state and side effects in functional components. Some of the most commonly used React Hooks include:

useState: Allows functional components to manage local state.

useEffect: Allows functional components to perform side effects, such as data fetching, subscribing to external events, or manually changing the DOM.

useContext: Allows functional components to consume context values from the nearest Context.Provider component in the component tree.

useReducer: Provides an alternative to useState for managing more complex state logic using reducers.

useCallback and useMemo: Memoize functions and values to avoid unnecessary re-renders.

useRef: Allows functional components to hold a mutable reference to a DOM element or any other value that persists across renders.

	Using React Hooks, developers can write more concise, readable, and reusable code in functional components without sacrificing the benefits of state management and side effects. Additionally, hooks encourage better separation of concerns and facilitate the creation of custom hooks for sharing logic between components.

4.What is useState

	In React.js, useState is a Hook that allows functional components to manage state. Prior to the introduction of Hooks, functional components in React were stateless and could not directly manage state. However, with the useState Hook, functional components can now use stateful logic without converting them into class components.

	The useState Hook returns a stateful value (often referred to as the state variable) and a function to update that value. It allows you to declare state variables inside functional components, providing a simpler and more concise syntax compared to class components.

import React, { useState } from 'react';

const MyComponent = () => {
  // useState returns an array with two elements:
  // - the current state value (count in this example)
  // - a function to update the state (setCount in this example)
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

5.Why do we need a useState Hook?

The useState Hook in React.js serves several important purposes, making it a fundamental tool for functional components:

State Management in Functional Components: Before the introduction of Hooks, functional components in React were stateless and couldn't manage their own state. With the useState Hook, functional components can now use stateful logic, allowing them to manage state without converting to class components.

Simplified Syntax: Using useState provides a simpler and more concise syntax compared to class components. It eliminates the need for writing constructor methods and using this.setState, reducing boilerplate code and making the component code easier to read and write.


























 






























