							DAY 4 Class Notes

What is bable => it is javascript library which do the conversion of code from modern javaScript to olderJavs Script

Tree Shaking =>Removing unwanted code

babel plugin transform remove .console=>To remove console.log from your project

babel.rc is configuration file for babel

npm install babel-plugin-transform-remove-console --save-dev 

after instakling we need to configure the babel also
for that we need to create one file .bablerc

.bablerc

{
    "plugins": [ ["transform-remove-console",
    { "exclude": [ "error", "warn"] }] ]
}

delete previors dist folder 

again build the code 
npm run build


react reconcillation key
Keys are always good when you have multiple childern in HTML so that react do not need to render whole page
reactjs.org/docs/reconciliation.html
Render => updtaing somthing into dom

if we want to create more react.createElementthen every time createing reactElement is not suitable thats why we use jsx
JSX is not HTML inside javaScript

what is difference between HTML and JSX

babel
babel take this pice of code give normal code to use

what are differnt usage of jsx
advantages of JSX 

babel come along with the parcel when we install the npm i install

 ( 
    <h2 id="title" key="h2">  
       Namaste React 
    </h2> 
    ) //this is konwn as JSX expression

Name of component start with capital letter

								DAY 4 ASSIGNMENT

1. What is babel in ReactJs

	In ReactJS, "Babel" refers to a toolchain that is primarily used to convert ECMAScript 2015+ (ES6+) code into a backwards-compatible version of JavaScript that can be run in older browsers or environments that may not support the latest JavaScript features.

	ReactJS often leverages the latest JavaScript features to write concise and expressive code. However, since not all browsers support these features, Babel is used as a transpiler to convert this modern JavaScript code into a form that can be understood by a wider range of browsers.

	Additionally, Babel can also be configured to work with JSX, a syntax extension used by React for writing components. JSX allows developers to write HTML-like code directly within JavaScript, making it easier to define UI components. Babel can transpile this JSX syntax into regular JavaScript function calls.

	In summary, Babel is an essential tool in the ReactJS ecosystem, enabling developers to write modern JavaScript and JSX code while ensuring compatibility with a wide range of browsers and environments.

2. What is babel-plugin-transform-remove-console

Command => npm install babel-plugin-transform-remove-console --save-dev

	The command npm install babel-plugin-transform-remove-console --save-dev installs the Babel plugin named babel-plugin-transform-remove-console as a development dependency in a Node.js project.

	This Babel plugin is typically used during the build process of a JavaScript project, particularly in environments like ReactJS, to remove all console.log() statements from the code. This is useful for production builds because it helps in reducing the size of the JavaScript bundle and improves performance by eliminating unnecessary console logging statements, which are primarily used for debugging purposes during development.

	Once installed, you would typically configure Babel to use this plugin in your Babel configuration file (e.g., .babelrc or babel.config.js) to ensure that it's applied during the transpilation process. Then, when you build your project, Babel will remove all console.log() statements from the codebase, leaving behind a more optimized production bundle 

.babelrc
{
    "plugins": [ ["transform-remove-console",
    { "exclude": [ "error", "warn"] }] ]
}

after installing we need to configure the babel also
for that we need to create one file .bablerc

.bablerc

{
    "plugins": [ ["transform-remove-console",
    { "exclude": [ "error", "warn"] }] ]
}

delete previous dist folder 

again build the code 
npm run build

3. What is react reconcillation key

https://legacy.reactjs.org/docs/reconciliation.html

	In React, reconciliation keys are special identifiers assigned to elements in lists, such as those generated by iterating over an array and rendering components for each item.

	When React renders a list of elements, it needs a way to efficiently update the DOM when the order or number of elements in the list changes. React uses a process called reconciliation to determine how to update the DOM based on changes in the component tree.

	Reconciliation keys help React identify which elements in the list have changed, moved, or been added or removed. By providing a stable identifier for each element, React can optimize updates and avoid unnecessary re-renders.

	When you render a list in React, you should provide a unique key prop to each element in the list. These keys should be stable across renders, typically being based on the data associated with each element. Using stable and unique keys helps React efficiently update the DOM without unnecessarily re-rendering or reordering elements.

4. What is jsx 

	JSX stands for JavaScript XML. It is a syntax extension for JavaScript, often used with React to describe what the UI should look like. JSX allows developers to write HTML-like code within JavaScript, making it easier to create and visualize UI components.

const element = <h1>Hello, world!</h1>;

const element = React.createElement('h1', null, 'Hello, world!');

	JSX makes the code more readable and closer to what you would expect when writing HTML, which is why it's a popular choice for building UI components in React applications.

	Under the hood, JSX is transpiled into regular JavaScript function calls. Typically, a tool like Babel is used to transform JSX code into JavaScript code that browsers can understand. This process allows developers to write JSX code during development and have it compiled into efficient JavaScript code for production deployment.

5. What is difference between jsx and React.createElement

	JSX and React.createElement serve the same purpose in React, which is to create React elements that represent the UI. However, they differ in their syntax and how they are used.

	Overall, JSX is the preferred way to define React components in most cases due to its readability and ease of use. However, React.createElement() can be useful in certain scenarios, such as when generating React elements dynamically or programmatically.

6. Benifits of JSX
	
	JSX, the JavaScript XML syntax extension used in React, offers several benefits:

Readable Syntax: JSX resembles HTML, making it more readable and intuitive, especially for developers already familiar with HTML markup. This makes it easier to visualize the structure of UI components.

Faster Development: JSX allows developers to write UI components directly within JavaScript code, reducing the need for separate template files and improving development speed. It streamlines the process of building UIs by combining markup and logic in a single file.

Expressive: JSX enables the use of JavaScript expressions and logic within markup, allowing for dynamic content rendering, conditional rendering, and iteration over data collections directly within JSX code. This results in more expressive and powerful component definitions.

Tooling Support: JSX is widely supported by tools and libraries in the React ecosystem. Editors and IDEs provide syntax highlighting, code completion, and error checking for JSX code, improving developer productivity.

Compile-time Optimization: JSX code is transpiled into regular JavaScript function calls by tools like Babel. This compilation step allows for optimizations such as dead code elimination, minification, and performance enhancements, resulting in smaller bundle sizes and faster runtime execution.

Type Safety: JSX can be integrated with TypeScript or Flow, enabling static type checking and improved code quality. Type annotations can be added to JSX components and props, providing better tooling support and catching errors at compile time.

Component Reusability: JSX facilitates the creation of reusable and composable components by encapsulating both markup and behavior within a single unit. This promotes code reuse and maintainability by encouraging a modular and component-based architecture.

	Overall, JSX enhances the developer experience in React by providing a more readable, expressive, and efficient way to define UI components, leading to faster development cycles and improved code quality.

7. Behind the Scenes of JSX


	Behind the scenes, JSX in React is transformed into regular JavaScript code. This transformation is typically handled by a tool like Babel during the build process. Here's what happens behind the scenes when you use JSX:

a.Parsing: JSX syntax is not valid JavaScript, so it needs to be parsed into an abstract syntax tree (AST) representation that JavaScript engines can understand. This parsing is done by tools like Babel, which convert JSX code into JavaScript AST.

b.Transformation: Once parsed, the JSX AST is transformed into regular JavaScript code. Each JSX element is converted into a series of React.createElement() function calls. For example, <div>Hello</div> might be transformed into React.createElement('div', null, 'Hello').

c.Compilation: The transformed JavaScript code is then compiled into executable code, typically by converting it into ES5 or ES6 JavaScript syntax. This step might involve additional optimizations or transformations to improve performance or compatibility with different browsers.

d.Execution: Finally, the compiled JavaScript code is executed by the JavaScript engine in the browser or runtime environment. This results in the creation of React elements and the rendering of the UI on the screen.

	Overall, JSX provides a more readable and expressive way to define UI components in React, but it's important to understand that it's not directly understood by JavaScript engines. Instead, it's transformed into regular JavaScript code behind the scenes to enable its execution in browsers and other JavaScript environments.

8.Superpowers of JSX

	JSX in React provides developers with several superpowers that significantly enhance their ability to build modern, dynamic, and efficient user interfaces:

a.Declarative Syntax: JSX allows developers to write UI code in a declarative manner, where they describe what the UI should look like rather than focusing on the imperative steps to render it. This makes code easier to read, understand, and maintain.

b.Component Composition: JSX facilitates the creation of reusable and composable UI components. Components can be nested within each other, allowing developers to build complex UIs from simpler building blocks. This promotes code reusability, modularity, and maintainability.

c.Integration of JavaScript Expressions: JSX seamlessly integrates JavaScript expressions and logic within markup, allowing for dynamic content rendering, conditional rendering, and iteration over data collections directly within JSX code. This enables developers to build highly interactive and data-driven UIs with ease.

d.Tooling Support: JSX is well-supported by development tools and libraries in the React ecosystem. Editors and IDEs provide syntax highlighting, code completion, and error checking for JSX code, improving developer productivity and reducing the likelihood of syntax errors.

e.Type Safety with TypeScript or Flow: JSX can be integrated with TypeScript or Flow, enabling static type checking and improved code quality. Type annotations can be added to JSX components and props, providing better tooling support and catching errors at compile time.

f.Compile-time Optimization: JSX code is transpiled into regular JavaScript code during the build process. This compilation step allows for optimizations such as dead code elimination, minification, and performance enhancements, resulting in smaller bundle sizes and faster runtime execution.

g.Ecosystem Compatibility: JSX is widely adopted in the React ecosystem, with extensive community support and a rich ecosystem of libraries, tools, and resources. This makes it easier for developers to leverage existing solutions, share knowledge, and collaborate on projects.

	Overall, JSX empowers developers to build sophisticated and feature-rich user interfaces in React with greater efficiency, expressiveness, and maintainability, making it one of the key strengths of the React framework.

9.What is Babel & parcel role in JSX
	
	Both Babel and Parcel play important roles in handling JSX code in React applications:

Babel:

a.JSX Transformation: Babel is a JavaScript compiler that is often used to transform JSX code into regular JavaScript code that browsers can understand. JSX syntax is not directly understood by browsers, so Babel is necessary to transpile JSX into JavaScript that browsers can execute.

b.JSX Presets: Babel provides presets, such as @babel/preset-react, which includes plugins to handle JSX transformation. When configuring Babel, developers typically include this preset to enable JSX transformation in their projects.

c.Integration with Build Tools: Babel is commonly integrated into build tools like Webpack, Parcel, or Rollup to automatically transpile JSX code during the build process. By configuring Babel as part of the build pipeline, developers ensure that JSX code is transformed before being bundled for deployment.

Parcel:

a.Zero Configuration: Parcel is a web application bundler that aims to simplify the development process by requiring minimal configuration. It supports JSX out of the box, meaning developers can start using JSX in their projects without needing to set up additional configurations.

b.Automatic JSX Transformation: Parcel automatically detects JSX code in the project and applies the necessary transformations to convert it into regular JavaScript during the bundling process. This makes it easy for developers to work with JSX without worrying about manual setup or configuration.

c.Fast Development: Parcel's zero-configuration approach and built-in support for JSX make it well-suited for rapid development workflows. Developers can focus on writing code without getting bogged down by setup or build configuration, leading to faster development cycles.

	In summary, Babel and Parcel work together to handle JSX code in React applications. Babel transforms JSX syntax into standard JavaScript, while Parcel simplifies the development process by automatically handling JSX transformation without the need for manual configuration. This combination enables developers to leverage the power of JSX in React projects with minimal overhead.

10.What is Components in ReactJs

	In the context of React or other component-based frameworks, a component is a modular, reusable piece of user interface (UI) that encapsulates a specific functionality or behavior. Components can be thought of as building blocks used to construct the UI of an application.

In React, components can be divided into two main types:

a.Functional Components: These are JavaScript functions that take props (short for properties) as input and return JSX (JavaScript XML) to describe what should be rendered on the screen. Functional components are typically used for simpler UI elements or presentational components.

function Welcome(props) {
  return <h1>Hello, {props.name}!</h1>;
}

b.Class Components: These are ES6 classes that extend from React.Component and have a render() method. Class components can maintain internal state and handle lifecycle methods in addition to accepting props. They are often used for more complex UI components or containers that require state management and lifecycle hooks.

class Welcome extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <h1>Hello, {this.props.name}!</h1>;
  }
}

	Components can also be further organized into a hierarchy, where smaller, more specialized components are combined to form larger, more complex components. This approach promotes code reuse, maintainability, and scalability, as components can be easily composed and reused throughout the application.

	Overall, components play a central role in React development, allowing developers to build modular, encapsulated UI elements that can be easily composed and reused to create rich and interactive user interfaces.

11.What is Functional Components in ReactJs

	Functional components in ReactJS are a way of defining React components using JavaScript functions. They are also sometimes referred to as stateless functional components or functional stateless components. Functional components are primarily used for simpler UI elements or presentational components that don't need to manage state or lifecycle methods.

import React from 'react';

// Functional Component
function Welcome(props) {
  return <h1>Hello, {props.name}!</h1>;
}

In the above example:

The Welcome function is a functional component.
It takes props (short for properties) as its input.
It returns JSX (JavaScript XML) to describe what should be rendered on the screen.
The props can be accessed directly as parameters of the function (props.name).

Functional components have several advantages:

a.Simplicity: They are easy to read and write, making them a good choice for simple UI elements.
b.Performance: They are generally faster than class components because they don't involve the overhead of creating instances and managing lifecycle methods.
c.Easier Testing: They are easier to test because they are just plain JavaScript functions that take props as input and return JSX.






















